README.md, before:

﻿Eâ€‘Brain Bot: Neuroscience/AI News Pipeline

This is a minimal, endâ€‘toâ€‘end terminal pipeline that ingests neuroscience/AI news from RSS, extracts articles, clusters nearâ€‘duplicates, computes embeddings with OpenAI text-embedding-3-small, summarizes clusters with citations in an evidence-first watchdog tone, and publishes ranked outputs to a timestamped folder. No web UI.

[![CI](https://github.com/EbrahimAbdelwahed/e-brain-bot/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/EbrahimAbdelwahed/e-brain-bot/actions/workflows/ci.yml)

Quickstart

- Prereqs: Python 3.11+, `pip` or `uv`, and an OpenAI API key.
- Create venv and install:
  - Using uv: `uv venv && uv pip install -e .`
  - Using pip: `python -m venv .venv && .\.venv\Scripts\activate && pip install -e .`
- Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and set `OPENAI_API_KEY`.
- Run: `python -m pipeline all --out ./pipeline_runs --since 2025-09-01T00:00:00Z`

Notes

- Output folder is timestamped in ISO 8601 UTC with `:` replaced by `-` for Windows compatibility (e.g., `2025-09-01T00-00-00Z`).
- The pipeline respects robots and uses throttled requests (2 req/s per host), timeouts, retries, and HTTP caching via ETag/Last-Modified.
- Idempotent: re-running will not re-embed identical content (embedding cache by content hash in SQLite).
- Offline/development: if `OPENAI_API_KEY` is not set or `EMBED_OFFLINE=1`, embeddings fall back to a deterministic local stub so tests pass without network.

CLI

- Commands: `fetch`, `extract`, `cluster`, `summarize`, `publish`, `all`
- Flags: `--out`, `--since`, `--max-items`, `--dry-run`, `--log-level`, `--parallel`
- Cluster flags: `--jaccard-threshold` (default 0.85), `--num-perm` (default 128)
- Summarize flags: `--use-llm/--no-use-llm`, `--model TEXT` (default from `SUMMARIZE_MODEL` or `moonshotai/kimi-k2`)
- Example: `python -m pipeline all --out ./pipeline_runs --since 2025-09-01T00:00:00Z --parallel 8`

Outputs (under the run folder)

- `summaries.md`: ranked clusters with bullets and citations
- `clusters.json`: full objects
- `run_report.json`: counts, durations, failures, rate-limit stats
- `logs/run.log`: pipeline logs

Ranking

- Formula: base score = `0.5*freshness + 0.3*source_weight + 0.2*cluster_size`.
- Freshness: exponential decay with half-life hours (env `RANK_HALF_LIFE_HOURS`, default `24`): `freshness = exp(-ln(2) * age_hours / half_life_hours)`.
- Cluster size: `min(1.0, len(articles)/5)`.
- Heuristics (applied once per cluster; case-insensitive):
  - +0.1 preregistration cues: contains "prereg" or "registered report".
  - +0.1 open code/data: contains "github" or "open data".
  - +0.2 replication: contains "replication".
  - +0.2 policy impact: contains "policy" or "regulator".
  - -0.1 if no methods cues anywhere across articles: none of {"random", "double-blind", "n="}.
- Final score is clamped to [0,1]. Output shapes are unchanged; only ordering/scores may differ.

Summaries Persistence

- Summaries are persisted in SQLite table `summaries` with columns: `cluster_id` (PK), `tl_dr`, `bullets_json`, `citations_json`, `score`, `created_at`, `published_at`, `version_hash`.
- Summarization computes a deterministic `version_hash = sha256(PROMPT_VERSION + GUARDRAILS_VERSION + sorted(article_ids) + joined_extracted_facts)` and upserts one row per cluster. Re-running with unchanged inputs is idempotent (no updates).
- Publish reads persisted summaries from the DB (no recomputation) and writes `summaries.md` and `clusters.json` with unchanged shapes; ranking/ordering uses `rank.score_clusters()`.

Environment (.env)

- `OPENAI_API_KEY=...` (required for real embeddings)
- Optional: `EMBED_OFFLINE=1` to force offline embedding stub
- Optional (ranking): `RANK_HALF_LIFE_HOURS=24` to control freshness half-life.

LLM Summarization (OpenRouter)

- Default summarization is heuristic and offline-friendly. To enable LLM summarization via OpenRouter:
  - Set `OPENROUTER_API_KEY=...` (and optionally `OPENROUTER_BASE_URL=https://openrouter.ai/api/v1`).
  - Either pass `--use-llm` on the CLI or set `SUMMARIZE_USE_LLM=1`.
  - Choose a model with `--model` or `SUMMARIZE_MODEL` (default: `moonshotai/kimi-k2`).
  - Determinism defaults: `SUMMARIZE_TEMPERATURE=0.2`, `SUMMARIZE_TOP_P=0.9`; set `SUMMARIZE_SEED` (integer) to fix randomness if supported.
- Caching & idempotency: summaries are cached by a `version_hash` including `{prompt_version, guardrails_version, model, sorted(article_ids), extracted_facts}`. Re-running with the same inputs does not re-call the LLM.
- Offline/CI: tests monkeypatch the provider; no network calls are made. You can also set `LLM_OFFLINE=1` locally to stub provider responses.
- Evaluation: record the chosen model in `run_report.json` by running `python -m pipeline summarize --use-llm --model <name>` (or via `all`). Re-run with different `--model` values to compare outputs.

Model Evaluation

- Purpose: Compare multiple OpenRouter models' summaries side-by-side without changing persisted DB summaries.
- Setup: set `OPENROUTER_API_KEY` (and optionally `OPENROUTER_BASE_URL`). Determinism defaults `SUMMARIZE_TEMPERATURE=0.2`, `SUMMARIZE_TOP_P=0.9`; pass `--seed INT` or set `SUMMARIZE_SEED` to fix randomness.
- Run: `python -m pipeline eval-models --models "modelA,modelB" --seed 123`
- Artifacts (under the run folder):
  - `eval/<model>.md` — per-model outputs grouped by cluster.
  - `eval/compare.md` — per-cluster sections with all models' bullets.
  - `eval_report.json` — `{models, counts, durations, params}`.
- Non-persisting: this command never publishes or modifies `summaries`; DB rows remain unchanged.
- Offline testing: either set `LLM_OFFLINE=1` for a local stub, or monkeypatch `pipeline.llm.generate_chat` in tests (see `tests/test_eval_models.py`).

Runbook

1) `python -m pipeline fetch --since <ISO8601>`: fetch RSS into SQLite with ETag caching.
2) `python -m pipeline extract`: extract canonical URLs and article text via trafilatura.
3) `python -m pipeline cluster`: cluster near-duplicates via MinHash/LSH over 5-gram shingles (default Jaccard 0.85); compute centroids.
4) `python -m pipeline summarize`: produce map/reduce summaries with watchdog tone.
5) `python -m pipeline publish --out ./pipeline_runs`: write summaries and artifacts.
6) `python -m pipeline all` runs the above in sequence.

Testing

- `pytest -q`

CI & Coverage

- CI runs on push/PR via GitHub Actions and executes `pytest` with coverage, failing if global coverage < 85%.
- Local reproduction:
  - Install dev deps: `pip install -e .[dev]`
  - Offline-friendly runs: `set EMBED_OFFLINE=1` and `set LLM_OFFLINE=1` (Windows) or `export EMBED_OFFLINE=1 LLM_OFFLINE=1` (Unix)
  - Run tests with coverage: `pytest --maxfail=1 -q --cov=pipeline --cov-report=xml`
- Coverage threshold is configured in `pyproject.toml` under `[tool.coverage.report] fail_under = 85`.

Robots Compliance & Fallback

- Extraction consults `robots.txt` for each article URL using the pipeline User-Agent and does not fetch disallowed pages.
- When robots disallow or an article fetch fails, extraction falls back to the feed title + summary (low quality = 0.2). Output shapes and downstream behavior remain unchanged.
- HTTP requests (including robots) enforce per-domain concurrency = 1, keep existing RPS throttling, retries with jitter, and use conditional GETs (ETag/Last-Modified) for caching.

TODOs (next iteration)

- Optional publishing to social platforms (X), and light web UI.
- Additional sources and smarter summarization heuristics.


Environment (.env) additions

- Optional (DB): DATABASE_URL=postgresql://... (Neon with pgvector)
- Optional (Observability): LANGFUSE_HOST, LANGFUSE_PUBLIC_KEY, LANGFUSE_SECRET_KEY

Commit message:

feat(obs): add optional Langfuse hooks + no-op spans (WO-20250903-009)
- Provide pipeline/obs.py with guarded Langfuse init and safe no-op context manager
- Instrument pipeline stages and LLM calls with obs_span
- Enrich run_report with observability.enabled; keep shapes backward compatible
- Add optional dependency extras: langfuse>=2,<3
- Document usage in README
- Add offline-friendly test for no-op behavior

README.md, after:

﻿Eâ€‘Brain Bot: Neuroscience/AI News Pipeline

This is a minimal, endâ€‘toâ€‘end terminal pipeline that ingests neuroscience/AI news from RSS, extracts articles, clusters nearâ€‘duplicates, computes embeddings with OpenAI text-embedding-3-small, summarizes clusters with citations in an evidence-first watchdog tone, and publishes ranked outputs to a timestamped folder. No web UI.

[![CI](https://github.com/EbrahimAbdelwahed/e-brain-bot/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/EbrahimAbdelwahed/e-brain-bot/actions/workflows/ci.yml)

Quickstart

- Prereqs: Python 3.11+, `pip` or `uv`, and an OpenAI API key.
- Create venv and install:
  - Using uv: `uv venv && uv pip install -e .`
  - Using pip: `python -m venv .venv && .\.venv\Scripts\activate && pip install -e .`
- Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and set `OPENAI_API_KEY`.
- Run: `python -m pipeline all --out ./pipeline_runs --since 2025-09-01T00:00:00Z`

Notes

- Output folder is timestamped in ISO 8601 UTC with `:` replaced by `-` for Windows compatibility (e.g., `2025-09-01T00-00-00Z`).
- The pipeline respects robots and uses throttled requests (2 req/s per host), timeouts, retries, and HTTP caching via ETag/Last-Modified.
- Idempotent: re-running will not re-embed identical content (embedding cache by content hash in SQLite).
- Offline/development: if `OPENAI_API_KEY` is not set or `EMBED_OFFLINE=1`, embeddings fall back to a deterministic local stub so tests pass without network.

CLI

- Commands: `fetch`, `extract`, `cluster`, `summarize`, `publish`, `all`
- Flags: `--out`, `--since`, `--max-items`, `--dry-run`, `--log-level`, `--parallel`
- Cluster flags: `--jaccard-threshold` (default 0.85), `--num-perm` (default 128)
- Summarize flags: `--use-llm/--no-use-llm`, `--model TEXT` (default from `SUMMARIZE_MODEL` or `moonshotai/kimi-k2`)
- Example: `python -m pipeline all --out ./pipeline_runs --since 2025-09-01T00:00:00Z --parallel 8`

Outputs (under the run folder)

- `summaries.md`: ranked clusters with bullets and citations
- `clusters.json`: full objects
- `run_report.json`: counts, durations, failures, rate-limit stats
- `logs/run.log`: pipeline logs

Ranking

- Formula: base score = `0.5*freshness + 0.3*source_weight + 0.2*cluster_size`.
- Freshness: exponential decay with half-life hours (env `RANK_HALF_LIFE_HOURS`, default `24`): `freshness = exp(-ln(2) * age_hours / half_life_hours)`.
- Cluster size: `min(1.0, len(articles)/5)`.
- Heuristics (applied once per cluster; case-insensitive):
  - +0.1 preregistration cues: contains "prereg" or "registered report".
  - +0.1 open code/data: contains "github" or "open data".
  - +0.2 replication: contains "replication".
  - +0.2 policy impact: contains "policy" or "regulator".
  - -0.1 if no methods cues anywhere across articles: none of {"random", "double-blind", "n="}.
- Final score is clamped to [0,1]. Output shapes are unchanged; only ordering/scores may differ.

Summaries Persistence

- Summaries are persisted in SQLite table `summaries` with columns: `cluster_id` (PK), `tl_dr`, `bullets_json`, `citations_json`, `score`, `created_at`, `published_at`, `version_hash`.
- Summarization computes a deterministic `version_hash = sha256(PROMPT_VERSION + GUARDRAILS_VERSION + sorted(article_ids) + joined_extracted_facts)` and upserts one row per cluster. Re-running with unchanged inputs is idempotent (no updates).
- Publish reads persisted summaries from the DB (no recomputation) and writes `summaries.md` and `clusters.json` with unchanged shapes; ranking/ordering uses `rank.score_clusters()`.

Environment (.env)

- `OPENAI_API_KEY=...` (required for real embeddings)
- Optional: `EMBED_OFFLINE=1` to force offline embedding stub
- Optional (ranking): `RANK_HALF_LIFE_HOURS=24` to control freshness half-life.

LLM Summarization (OpenRouter)

- Default summarization is heuristic and offline-friendly. To enable LLM summarization via OpenRouter:
  - Set `OPENROUTER_API_KEY=...` (and optionally `OPENROUTER_BASE_URL=https://openrouter.ai/api/v1`).
  - Either pass `--use-llm` on the CLI or set `SUMMARIZE_USE_LLM=1`.
  - Choose a model with `--model` or `SUMMARIZE_MODEL` (default: `moonshotai/kimi-k2`).
  - Determinism defaults: `SUMMARIZE_TEMPERATURE=0.2`, `SUMMARIZE_TOP_P=0.9`; set `SUMMARIZE_SEED` (integer) to fix randomness if supported.
- Caching & idempotency: summaries are cached by a `version_hash` including `{prompt_version, guardrails_version, model, sorted(article_ids), extracted_facts}`. Re-running with the same inputs does not re-call the LLM.
- Offline/CI: tests monkeypatch the provider; no network calls are made. You can also set `LLM_OFFLINE=1` locally to stub provider responses.
- Evaluation: record the chosen model in `run_report.json` by running `python -m pipeline summarize --use-llm --model <name>` (or via `all`). Re-run with different `--model` values to compare outputs.

Observability

- Env vars: set `LANGFUSE_HOST`, `LANGFUSE_PUBLIC_KEY`, and `LANGFUSE_SECRET_KEY` to enable optional Langfuse tracing. If any are unset, observability is a safe no-op and never performs network calls.
- Spans structure (coarse-grained, stage boundaries):
  - `pipeline.fetch`, `pipeline.extract`, `pipeline.cluster`, `pipeline.summarize`, `pipeline.publish`; and within `summarize`, LLM provider calls are wrapped in `llm.summarize` with attributes `{model, temperature, top_p, seed, prompt_chars, output_chars}`.
- Local logs: spans also emit start/end lines to `logs/run.log` for offline visibility.
- Run report enrichment: `run_report.json` gains `observability: {"enabled": <bool>}` and may include an internal `trace_id` if available. Existing fields and consumers remain unchanged.
- Installation: Langfuse is optional; to install with observability extras use `pip install -e .[observability]`. Tests and CI remain offline-friendly.

Model Evaluation

- Purpose: Compare multiple OpenRouter models' summaries side-by-side without changing persisted DB summaries.
- Setup: set `OPENROUTER_API_KEY` (and optionally `OPENROUTER_BASE_URL`). Determinism defaults `SUMMARIZE_TEMPERATURE=0.2`, `SUMMARIZE_TOP_P=0.9`; pass `--seed INT` or set `SUMMARIZE_SEED` to fix randomness.
- Run: `python -m pipeline eval-models --models "modelA,modelB" --seed 123`
- Artifacts (under the run folder):
  - `eval/<model>.md` — per-model outputs grouped by cluster.
  - `eval/compare.md` — per-cluster sections with all models' bullets.
  - `eval_report.json` — `{models, counts, durations, params}`.
- Non-persisting: this command never publishes or modifies `summaries`; DB rows remain unchanged.
- Offline testing: either set `LLM_OFFLINE=1` for a local stub, or monkeypatch `pipeline.llm.generate_chat` in tests (see `tests/test_eval_models.py`).

Runbook

1) `python -m pipeline fetch --since <ISO8601>`: fetch RSS into SQLite with ETag caching.
2) `python -m pipeline extract`: extract canonical URLs and article text via trafilatura.
3) `python -m pipeline cluster`: cluster near-duplicates via MinHash/LSH over 5-gram shingles (default Jaccard 0.85); compute centroids.
4) `python -m pipeline summarize`: produce map/reduce summaries with watchdog tone.
5) `python -m pipeline publish --out ./pipeline_runs`: write summaries and artifacts.
6) `python -m pipeline all` runs the above in sequence.

Testing

- `pytest -q`

CI & Coverage

- CI runs on push/PR via GitHub Actions and executes `pytest` with coverage, failing if global coverage < 85%.
- Local reproduction:
  - Install dev deps: `pip install -e .[dev]`
  - Offline-friendly runs: `set EMBED_OFFLINE=1` and `set LLM_OFFLINE=1` (Windows) or `export EMBED_OFFLINE=1 LLM_OFFLINE=1` (Unix)
  - Run tests with coverage: `pytest --maxfail=1 -q --cov=pipeline --cov-report=xml`
- Coverage threshold is configured in `pyproject.toml` under `[tool.coverage.report] fail_under = 85`.

Robots Compliance & Fallback

- Extraction consults `robots.txt` for each article URL using the pipeline User-Agent and does not fetch disallowed pages.
- When robots disallow or an article fetch fails, extraction falls back to the feed title + summary (low quality = 0.2). Output shapes and downstream behavior remain unchanged.
- HTTP requests (including robots) enforce per-domain concurrency = 1, keep existing RPS throttling, retries with jitter, and use conditional GETs (ETag/Last-Modified) for caching.

TODOs (next iteration)

- Optional publishing to social platforms (X), and light web UI.
- Additional sources and smarter summarization heuristics.


Environment (.env) additions

- Optional (DB): DATABASE_URL=postgresql://... (Neon with pgvector)
- Optional (Observability): LANGFUSE_HOST, LANGFUSE_PUBLIC_KEY, LANGFUSE_SECRET_KEY
